India is extremely vulnerable to natural hazards such as cyclones, earthquakes and floods. Cyclones themselves during the period between 1980-2000 have on average affected 370 million people in India. Not only that annually 308 cyclones have affected the East Coast. Our solution to mitigate the damage of this natural disaster is to build an app that can predict the path of the hurricane and warn the users of potential life threats before the hurricane hits.
To develop this app we will first give the current location of the user as input to the app which will then converse with the database hosted on Microsoft Azure. The database hosted on Azure would contain the Machine learning model built using neural networks which has taken in data set of past hurricanes in the Indian Ocean. This would then output the predicted path of the hurricane and would then relay this information from the cloud to our app. This would then give us the probability of the hurricane affecting the input location.  
The app would also contain information of safety measures to be taken during hurricanes if the location is prone to be hit by a cyclone. It will also contain all the emergency numbers required if such a case occurs. 
Extensions to this app include dynamically adding a marker by the user on the map indicating potential hazards or access to resources which would be tremendously beneficial during the time of natural disaster. This feature would also allow for upvotes by other users showing the validity of the marker. Attributes of the marker include food, medicine, shelter and “need help.” 
One more extension is to find the shortest path between a cyclone hit location and a relief center. This would be done by representing each location as a graph and the roads as edges then you would apply a shortest path algorithm(Dijkstra’s Algorithm, Bellman Ford or Floyd Warshall’s algorithm).
These possible extensions would be done if time permits. 
